---
title: "DEEPTYPE: Refining Indirect Call Targets with Strong Multi-layer Type Analysis"
[//]: # (collection: publications)
authors: "Tianrou Xia, Hong Hu, and Dinghao Wu"
pdf: "/files/deeptype.pdf"
permalink: /publication/2024-paper1.md/
date: 2024
venue: "33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24)"
paperurl: "https://github.com/Shrimpig/shrimpig.github.io/blob/master/files/deeptype.pdf"
[//]: # (excerpt: "We propose a Network Assisted Approach that combines local detection with network-level detection, and evaluate it in a 100-container Docker testbed.")
[//]: # (citation: 'Tianrou Xia, Yuanyi Sun, Sencun Zhu, Zeeshan Rasheed, Khurram Shafique. &quot;Toward A Network-Assisted Approach for Effective Ransomware Detection.&quot; <i>EAI Endorsed Transactions on Security and Safety</i>, 7(24): e3, 2021. DOI: 10.4108/eai.28-1-2021.168506.')
---
Abstract:
Indirect calls, while facilitating dynamic execution characteristics in C and C++ programs, impose challenges on precise construction of the control-flow graphs (CFG). This hinders effective program analyses for bug detection (e.g., fuzzing) and program protection (e.g., control-flow integrity). Solutions using data-tracking and type-based analysis are proposed for identifying indirect call targets, but are either time-consuming or imprecise for obtaining the analysis results. Multi-layer type analysis (MLTA), as the state-of-the-art approach, upgrades type-based analysis by leveraging multi-layer type hierarchy, but their solution to dealing with the information flow between multi-layer types introduces false positives. In this paper, we propose strong multi-layer type analysis (SMLTA) and implement the prototype, DEEPTYPE, to further refine indirect call targets. It adopts a robust solution to record and retrieve type information, avoiding information loss and enhancing accuracy. We evaluate DEEPTYPE on Linux kernel, 5 web servers, and 14 user applications. Compared to TypeDive, the prototype of MLTA, DEEPTYPE is able to narrow down the scope of indirect call targets by 43.11% on average across most benchmarks and reduce runtime overhead by 5.45% to 72.95%, which demonstrates the effectiveness, efficiency and applicability of SMLTA.
